# CPU-temperature-control
A small bash script to keep the CPU temperature under a certain limit

This script works by interrupting the programs that consume the most to the CPU, sending them a STOP signal, stopping them until a certain temperature is reached, after which their execution is restarted with a CONT signal.

Variables to control CPU temperature must be manipulated in the bash script code. Those variables are TEMPMAX and TEMPEST. The TEMPMAX variable indicates the maximum temperature that the CPU should reach and in TEMPEST the temperature that it should reach after the CPU is consuming the most. There is a risk that if the TEMPEST variable is very low, by interrupting the processes that consume the most the CPU, although the TEMPMAX temperature is no longer reached, the TEMPEST temperature is never reached. This would make the programs that were interrupted cannot be resumed. So the TEMPMAX and TEMPEST temperatures should be close enough so that when the programs that consume the most CPU are interrupted, the TEMPEST temperature is reached in a reasonable time and the execution of the processes can be resumed. It is also possible that some processes may not be able to resume their execution normally after being interrupted. This is a risk that should be taken by everyone who uses the program.

Initially I created this script for a computer that was not even capable of running a compilation program without restarting. This was because it was very sensitive to high temperatures. It could not even reach 80 ° C, this seems to be a manufacturing defect of the equipment. But because it was not detected in time, the warranty could not be claimed. These problems can also be solved by changing the CPU fan for a higher power one or thermal paste. Unfortunately there were also budgetary problems to repair that equipment. This is a small software solution, which although it has its flaws, is better than having a totally useless computer.
